{section:mainmatter, sample:true}
# Problem 1
Consider the following code:

```
$jsonFiles = Get-ChildItem -path "c:\tmp\json" -filter *.json | 
  get-content -raw
$allobjects = $jsonFiles | convertfrom-json

$alreadyCreatedGroup = Get-UnifiedGroup | select alias

function checkForExistingGroup {
    [CmdletBinding()]
    Param(
        [Parameter(Position=0, Mandatory=$true, ValueFromPipeline=$true)]
        $InputObject
    )

    Process {
            if("gr-$($InputObject.alias)" -in $alreadyCreatedGroup){
                echo "$($inputobject.alias) exists"
                } 
                    else{
                        echo "$($InputObject.alias) does not exist"
                    }
            }
        }

$allobjects | checkForExistingGroup
```

Basically, this code is grabbing some group aliases in `$alreadyCreatedGroup`. It's then grabbing a bunch of objects which have an Alias property, piping them to a function, and then checking to see which of those already exist in `$alreadyCreatedGroup`. A trick is that the piped-in objects have a "gr-" prefix, whereas the items in `$alreadyCreatedGroup` do not. As written, this will not work. Can you see why?

## Spoiler!
There are a few problems with the script, and I'll start with the non-substantive ones.

First, the function is using a name that doesn't meet PowerShell naming conventions.

Second, the function is using `echo`, which is an alias to `Write-Host`; it really should be outputting this "test output" using `Write-Verbose`, which can be disabled when it's no longer needed, and re-enabled when it is, simply by running (or not running) the function using `-Verbose`. 

Substantively, the function itself is using `$alreadyCreatedGroup`, which _exists outside the scope of the function_. This is a very bad coding practice, and can create a variety of difficult-to-debug situations. Except in extremely rare situations, functions should accept input _only_ via parameters.

Finally, all those issues aside, the main problem is here:

```
$alreadyCreatedGroup = Get-UnifiedGroup | select alias
```

This creates a collection of objects which have an Alias property. Compare that to this:

```
$inputobject.alias
```

Presuming the piped-in objects have an Alias property also, this code will return a simple string. So when the comparison is run:

```
("gr-$($InputObject.alias)" -in $alreadyCreatedGroup)
```

We're checking to see if a _simple string_, prefixed with "gr-", exists within a collection of objects. PowerShell doesn't "know" that it's supposed to be comparing the prefixed string _to the Alias property_ of the objects in `$alreadyCreatedGroup`. Instead, PowerShell is going to "think" of this like, "okay, is the string 'gr-something' the same as this complex object that potentially has multiple properties?" It's not like comparing apples to oranges, it's like comparing apples to an entire produce section at the grocery store.

This is a _very common "gotcha"_ in PowerShell. Whenever you're comparing things, you have to make absolutely certain you're comparing the same _kinds_ of things. Here, we've got a simple string coming from `$InputObject.alias`. The fact that `$alreadyCreatedGroup` only possess a property named Alias may be meaningful to _humans_, but PowerShell can't make the "mental leap" and think, "OOOOOH, I'm supposed to compare the string to the contents of the only property that happens to exist, here." So the comparison fails.

Revised:

```
$alreadyCreatedGroup = Get-UnifiedGroup | select -Expand alias

function Test-ForExistingGroup {
    [CmdletBinding()]
    Param(
        [Parameter(Position=0, Mandatory=$true, ValueFromPipeline=$true)]
        $InputObject,

        [Parameter(Position=0, Mandatory=$true)]
        $ExistingGroups
    )

    Process {
            if("gr-$($InputObject.alias)" -in $ExistingGroups) {
                Write-Verbose "$($inputobject.alias) exists"  
            } else{
                Write-Verbose "$($InputObject.alias) does not exist"
            }
    }
}

$allobjects | Test-ForExistingGroup -Verbose -Existing $alreadyCreatedGroup
```

1. I've renamed the function to conform to PowerShell patterns.
2. I've fixed some of the bracket indentation and alignment. This is a pet peeve.
3. I've added a parameter so that the `$alreadyCreatedGroup` can be passed into the function properly. The function no longer needs to rely on external data.
4. I've modified the `echo` commands to use `Write-Verbose` instead. Note that I add `-Verbose` when running the function, at the end.
5. Importantly, I'm extracting the _contents_ of the Alias property for `$alreadyCreatedGroup`, so that I'm passing the function a list of strings to compare to other strings—apples to apples. That was done here:

```
$alreadyCreatedGroup = Get-UnifiedGroup | select -Expand alias
```

The `-ExpandProperty` parameter of `Select-Object` _extracts_ the string from the Alias property, leaving an array of strings rather than a collection of objects.


