# Problem 12: Assignment and Output
Why does this output "pony"?

```
($a = "pony")
```

## Spoiler!
This is actually _really_ tricky, in terms of what's happening. Let's start by just looking at a simpler version:

```
"pony"
```

Whenever PowerShell encounters a command-line that consists of an expression, it has to figure out what to _do_ with it. So it calls its default command, `Write-Output`. The above is exactly the same as this, in terms of functionality:

```
Write "pony"
```

Of course, `Write` is just an alias to `Write-Output`, which means it's functionally the same as:

```
Write-Output "pony"
```

_Functionally_ the same. In fact, these three examples have different actual performance:

* `"pony"` .512ms
* `Write "pony"` 31.37ms
* `Write-Output "pony"` 7.137ms

The use of the alias taking longer kind of makes sense, since PowerShell has to look up the alias first. But it surprises a lot of folks to learn that _using `Write-Output` actually takes longer_ than just letting it happen "by default." Obviously, the numbers will differ from system to system based on system load, but the relative differences are what's interesting.

Anyway, consider this:

```
$a = "pony"
```

This will place the string "pony" into `$a` and return nothing. So why does this return something?

```
($a = "pony")
```

There's kind of a little under-the-hood sneakiness going on. In this case, `$a` will still contain "pony:"

```
PS /> ($a = "pony")                                                             
pony
PS /> $a                                                                        
pony
PS /> 
```

It's just in that specific situation, where you've created a parenthetical expression, PowerShell both executes it _and_ returns the result. It's intended to be useful I cases like `if` or `while` constructs, where you use a parenthetical expression to determine logical flow, but you _also_ want the assignment to actually take effect. It's kind of a bit niche, meaning you don't see folks use it a lot, but it's one of the "syntax sugar" things that PowerShell has stashed around inside its brain.

Honestly, if you're thinking, "this makes no sense to me," I get it. It's a kind of programmer-y thing, and there's no reason you _have_ to use this syntax.

