{sample: true}
# Problem 13: Tricky Parameter Sets
Here's the code (which is in the code samples in GitHub, too):

```
function Test-ParameterSet
{
[CmdletBinding(
DefaultParameterSetName = "all"
)]
Param
(
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false,
Position = 0)]
[ValidateNotNullorEmpty()]
[String]$apiKey,
[ValidateSet("Prod", "Dev")]
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
$environment = "Dev",
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
[int]$maxItems,
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false,
ParameterSetName = "all")]
[switch]$all,
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false,
ParameterSetName = "byCustomerId")]
[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "byId")]
[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "byName")]
[string]$customerId,
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false,
ParameterSetName = "byId")]
[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "byCustomerId")]
[string]$id,
[Parameter(Mandatory = $false,
ParameterSetName = "byName")]
[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "byCustomerId")]
[string]$name
)

Write-Output $PSCmdlet.ParameterSetName

}
```

Now look, that's a lot to read, and it's not especially well-formatted. So let's break it down a bit in English. We have four parameters: `-All`, `-CustomerId`, `-Id`, and `-Name`. Here's how we want them used:

1. We use `-All`, and cannot use any other parameter. 
2. We use `-CustomerId`, and do not use any other parameter.
3. Use use `-CustomerId` and also use `-Name`.
4. Use use `-CustomerId` and also use `-Id`. 

That right there is a tricky set of requirements. Parameter set #1 is easy, but #2-4 create a problem. You see, in #2, we want only `-CustomerId`, but we don't want any other parameter. So we might be inclined to make `-Name` and `-Id` optional parameters. But in that case, PowerShell _can't differentiate_ between sets 2-4. It's let us use `-Name` and `-Id` at the same time, since they're both optional. Optional parameters, basically, can't be used to "put yourself" into a parameter set, because PowerShell can't distinguish between "a set where a parameter isn't available" and "a set where a parameter is available, but not used." 

So how could we fix this?

## Spoiler!!
You could _probably_ define four sets. Set one makes `-All` mandatory, set 2 includes only `-CustomerId` as mandatory, set 3 makes both `-CustomerId` and `-Name` mandatory, and set 4 makes `-CustomerId` and `-Id` mandatory. If you had other usage scenarios, though, things would start to get more complex.

Parameter sets can be super-complex. You kind of have to think about them in terms of how _PowerShell_ thinks about them. 

PowerShell starts by looking at the parameters you have typed. It looks for any parameter sets _which do not include_ those parameters, and basically wipes them from its mind. The only parameter sets in consideration, then, are all the sets that contain every parameter you've typed so far. 

You need to keep typing parameters, then, until there's only one set remaining in consideration. 

So, consider this:

```
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "A")]
[switch]
$All,

[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "B")]
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "C")]
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "D")]
[string]
$CustomerID,

[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "B")]
[string]
$ID,

[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "C")]
[string]
$Name
```

Now suppose we type:

```
Whatever-Command -Name "BLAH"
```

Which sets are in consideration? Only "C." It's the only set that contains `-Name`. But we could also add `-CustomerId`, since it "lives" in set "C" also. In fact, we _must_ add `-CustomerId`, because it is _mandatory_ in all sets in which it exists. Now, let's change the definitions a bit:

```
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "A")]
[switch]
$All,

[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "B")]
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "C")]
[Parameter(Mandatory, ParameterSetName = "D")]
[string]
$CustomerID,

[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "B")]
[string]
$ID,

[Parameter(ParameterSetName = "C")]
[string]
$Name
```

Now suppose we type:

```
Whatever-Command -CustomerId "BLAH"
```

Which sets are in play? "B," "C," and "D" are. After all `-CustomerId` lives in all three of those. If we added `-Id`, we'd be locked into set "B." If we added `-Name`, we'd be locked into set "C." _But there's no way to lock ourselves into set "D!"_ Because `-Name` and `-Id` aren't mandatory, PowerShell can't decide which set we're trying to use! See the difference?
