# Problem 14: The Business Case
For this problem, we're going to take a slightly different tack. Consider this business need:

> I have a script that needs to send a command to a remote machine. We've enabled PowerShell Remoting, so I can use Invoke-Command to do this. However, the script won't be running under a user account that has permission to connect via Remoting. How can I have the script, which needs to run unattended on a schedule, send an alternate credential?

How would you solve this? Here's a hint: perambulations with the `-Credential` parameter of `Invoke-Command` _are not the best solution_. 

## Spoiler!!
The problem with the `-Credential` parameter is that, almost no matter what you do, you're storing potentially powerful credentials someplace where they can be retrieved with relative ease. Perhaps not in clear text, but in reality not much better than clear text.

The solution here is PowerShell's ability to create _constrained endpoints_ in Remoting. PowerShell's Just Enough Administration, or JEA, module can make these easier to set up, but you can set them up manually, too. _Secrets of PowerShell Remoting_, available at PowerShell.org, covers the basics.

To explain this, let's put some names to things.

* We want to run a **Scheduled Task** that is a PowerShell script.
* The Scheduled Task will run under a **Task User Account** of some kind. This can't be LocalSystem, though; it needs to be a legit user account that both machines can authenticate, like a domain user. But it doesn't need to be an admin of any kind.
* The Scheduled Task needs to use `Invoke-Command` to send commands to a **Remote Computer**. The command(s) being sent are known in advance, and we call that the **Command List**. 
* The commands on the Command List need to be executed by a **Privileged User Account** in order to work. This might be an admin.

Here's what we do:

1. On the Remote Computer, we create a new PowerShell Remoting endpoint.
2. We configure the endpoint with the Command List, so it can only run those commands.
3. We configure the endpoint to only provide access to the Task User Account.
4. We configure the endpoint to "Run As" the Privileged User Account.
5. We configure the Scheduled Task to use `Invoke-Command` to send its commands. There's no need to use the `-Credential` parameter.

A safe way of remotely using alternate credentials in a variety of situations, including a scheduled task.