{sample: true}
# Problem 15: Not Your Father's Programming Language
PowerShell is a _shell_, and it _contains_ a programming language. But most programmers wouldn't really love PowerShell as a programming language; it takes a lot of liberties that most languages don't. Here's a good example of where you can go wrong:

```
function GetDriver([string]$RegKey, [string]$oracle_home) {
  rrlog 2 "(L# 102):   RegKey: '$($RegKey)'"
  $theDriverWeWant="some string"
  return $theDriverWeWant
}
$theDriverWeWant = GetDriver $RegKey $oracle_home
```

Go ahead and pick that apart a bit. As-is, it will _not_ produce a string output, which is what the author seems to expect. Why or why not, and what else needs fixing?

## Spoiler!!
This kind of function declaration almost always tells me we're dealing with a "real programmer" who might be new to PowerShell:

```
function GetDriver([string]$RegKey, [string]$oracle_home) {
```

Now, that's totally _legal_ in PowerShell, but it's not how we'd _normally_ declare a function and its parameters. This isn't a problem _per se_, but it does make me alert for some of the other "I've been programming in real languages for years" gotchas I'm likely to see. In PowerShell, we'd normally write this as:

```
function GetDriver {
 Param([string]$RegKey, 
 [string]$oracle_home)
}
```

So now let's look at where the real problem lies:

```
  rrlog 2 "(L# 102):   RegKey: '$($RegKey)'"
  $theDriverWeWant="some string"
  return $theDriverWeWant
```

That `return` keyword is a huge red flag, because it _suggests_ that the author thinks PowerShell functions return a single value. You know, like in every other programming language ever. But that's not the case. The output of a PowerShell command (including functions, which are a kind of command) goes to the _pipeline_, and the pipeline is capable of--nay, is _delighted_ to be--handling many items of output.

In our case, the external command `rrlog` is doubtless producing some textual output. Because that hasn't been captured to a variable, it winds up in the pipeline _as the initial output of the function_. The `return` keyword then indeed puts something more in the pipeline and exits the function, but by that time out output is already hopeless corrupted. 

The fix?

```
  rrlog 2 "(L# 102):   RegKey: '$($RegKey)'" > $null
  $theDriverWeWant="some string"
  Write-Output -InputObject $theDriverWeWant
```

Forcing the `rrlog` output to the $null variable basically suppresses that output, and switching to `write` from `return` clears up any suggestion that we might not be familiar with PowerShell's under-the-hood ticks.
