# Problem 2
Here's some code:

```
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "abcd" -AsPlainText -Force
$Credentials = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential ("domainname\aduser", $Password )
$sql1 = New-PSSession -ComputerName sql1 -Credential $Credentials
Import-PSSession -Session sql1 -Module SQLPS -Prefix sql1 -AllowClobber
```

As you can see, the intent is to create a Remoting session to a computer (which appears to be running SQL Server), and use implicit remoting to import the SQLPS module from the server. The trick is, we're assuming that the user running this doesn't have permission to connect to the remote machine.

Specifically, the business requirement is:

> Domain users will be running the script but they don't have access to the server itself so the New-PSSession cmdlet blows up with 'access denied'. 

To confirm that Remoting was indeed working, the above code was run. Obviously _the code works_, but it's a bad idea. So what do you think of this, and how would you fix it?

## Spolier!
Hardcoding credentials is always a bad idea. Always. And to be fair, the individual who originally posted this acknowledged very clearly that they knew it was a bad idea. They just didn't know a better way.

Did you?

The answer is Just Enough Administration, or JEA. It's really just a set of commands (available in PowerShell Gallery, by the by) that help define and create _constrained endpoints_ in PowerShell Remoting. JEA is a big deal: it's a huge part of Azure Stack, for example, and it's a robust-production ready tool that solves a specific problem, which is how to let users safely run commands that they don't normally have permission to run.

When you set up Remoting on a computer, you're creating up to four _endpoints_. Nobody notices this, because normally when we use Remoting we're accessing the main default endpoint, which is named "Microsoft.PowerShell." But look at the help for commands like `Invoke-Command` and `Enter-PSSession` and you'll see that you can indeed specify the name of any endpoint you want. The default endpoint only allows Admins in (and members of a special Remote Admins group), and once you're in, you can run whatever commands you want. The default endpoint doesn't have a "run as" account assigned, so it just runs commands by using your credentials.

But that's just the default behavior.

When you create a custom endpoint, which is what JEA does, you can specify:

* Who is allowed to access it
* What commands they are allowed to run
* A "run as" account, which is stored _on the server_ and used to execute everything run inside the endpoint

The "what commands they are allowed to run" is a huge deal. You can pre-import whatever modules you want, and provide a "whitelist" of permitted commands. Only those commands will be visible, and they'll run as the "run as" account. You can even create _proxy functions_, which basically take an existing command and do stuff like remove parameters, add parameters, and so on. You could, for example, hardcode certain parameter values of a command rather than exposing them inside the endpoint. This restricts what someone can do with the command. It's exactly how Office 365's Remoting works, so that Microsoft can prevent you from accessing bits of Exchange (for example) that belong to another customer. 

Constrained endpoints—and JEA, which makes them easier to manage—are a massively useful and important PowerShell feature that's existed since v2. It's a shame so few people know about it, and what it can do.