# Problem 3: On Strings ByValue
As a note, the code for this one is pretty concise and illustrative, so there's no downloadable code version in the GitHub repo.

Consider this:

```
PS C:\> $MAC="08-00-27-35-AE-2C"
PS C:\> $MAC.replace('-','%')
08%00%27%35%AE%2C
```

Clear enough, right? The "-" characters are replaced with "%." But continuing in the same shell session, why does the following happen?

```
PS C:\> $MAC.replace('%',':')
08-00-27-35-AE-2C
```

That's your first problem. Second, consider this:

```
PS C:\> $MAC = Get-WMIObject win32_networkadapterconfiguration | foreach { $_.MacAddress }
PS C:\> $MAC
08:00:27:35:AE:2C
PS C:\> $MAC.replace(':','-')
You cannot call a method on a null-valued expression. 
At line:1 char:1
+ $MY_MAC.replace(':','-')
```

We've clearly gotten a MAC address in `$MAC`, so why the error message?

## Spoiler!
Let's cover the first one first.

```
PS C:\> $MAC="08-00-27-35-AE-2C"
PS C:\> $MAC.replace('-','%')
08%00%27%35%AE%2C
PS C:\> $MAC.replace('%',':')
08-00-27-35-AE-2C
```

In .NET Framework, and therefore PowerShell (and in most languages, for that matter), variables refer to things _by value_ as opposed to _by reference_. That means when you run a method like `Replace()`, you aren't modifying the contents of the original variable. Instead, you produce a _new value_, and the variable continues to contain its _old value_. In the above example, we didn't capture the new value into a variable, so it displayed at the console and then basically vanished into the ether.

_By reference_ works a bit differently, and it's a bit unusual to see it used in a situation like the above (PowerShell doesn't do "ByRef" very easily, either). In a "ByRef" system, using a variable actually just points to the location in memory where the variable "lives," so any actions taken "against" the variable actually do modify its contents. I'm mentioning this because it _is_ a legit thing in computers, but it's unusual in PowerShell.

Next problem:

```
PS C:\> $MAC = Get-WMIObject win32_networkadapterconfiguration | foreach { $_.MacAddress }
PS C:\> $MAC
08:00:27:35:AE:2C
PS C:\> $MAC.replace(':','-')
You cannot call a method on a null-valued expression. 
At line:1 char:1
+ $MY_MAC.replace(':','-')
```

This one's actually really subtle, and it illustrates how PowerShell can mess with your head without you realizing it. In this case, the `Get-WmiObject` call function as you might think, and the return objects do in fact have a `MacAddress` property. And that `MacAddress` property does return a string value, which does have a `Replace()` method. So what's happening?

It turns out that the `MacAddress` property is _actually an array_, not a single value. When we just ran `$MAC`, PowerShell said, "well, I suppose I could just display the fact that this is an array, but I bet what this person wants is to see all the items in the array. So I'll just display them all. Oh, there's only one."

You see, an array of one object _is still an array_, and _the array itself_ does not have a `Replace()` method. If we'd have done this:

```
PS C:\> $MAC[0].replace(':','-')
```

It would have worked, because now we're referring to a specific object within the array, which is a string, which does have a `Replace()` method.

PowerShell can actually be a little irritating about arrays in scenarios like this, because in _some_ cases and in _some_ later versions of PowerShell, it'll secretly enumerate each item in the collection. Basically, it'll do this under the hood:

```
ForEach ($item in $MAC) {
  $item.Replace(':','-')
  }
 ```
 
But it can't do that little trick every time (or in older versions), and so you _might not realize_ you're dealing with an array. Further, `Get-Member` will, by default, not show you that you've got an array--it figures you're probably interested in what's _inside_ the array, creating even more confusion.
 
One trick:

```
$MAC.Count
```

That'll return a nonzero number if you've got an array (to be fair, it can also return zero if you're referring to an empty array, but that's rare in the specific scenario outlined here), and you'll get an error if you're not dealing with an array (unless you happen to find a rare object that has a `Count` property). 
