{sample: true}
# Problem 5: On Patterns and Suppression
Consider this code, which doesn't produce the intended output. I'll give you an up-front thing to look for: there's both a technical problem here, as well as some style problems.

```
$ErrorActionPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'

$ComputerName =Get-ADComputer -Filter {(Name -like "*")} -SearchBase "OU=AsiaPacific,OU=Sales,OU=UserAccounts,DC=FABRIKAM,DC=COM" | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Name

$results = @()

ForEach ($computer in $ComputerName) {

$Results += Get-NetAdapter -CimSession $ComputerName | Select-Object PsComputerName, InterfaceAlias, Status, MacAddress

}

$results | Export-csv -path C\users\bret.hooker\desktop\macaddress.csv -Append
```

What would you change?

## Spoiler!!
First off, let's address the style problems. I personally have a _huge_ problem with:

```
$ErrorActionPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'
```

Sitting along at the top of a script, this simply disables error reporting, and it's the main reason this script becomes harder to debug. PowerShell _is_ returning a useful error message for the main technical problem in this script, but that message is being ruthlessly suppressed. This is not a good way to gracefully handle errors; a good read of [_The Big Book of PowerShell Error Handling_](https://leanpub.com/thebigbookofpowershellerrorhandling), which is also available in a Spanish translation, concisely outlines the right way to handle anticipated errors without removing useful ones.

Next, let's look at the technical problem:

```
$Results += Get-NetAdapter -CimSession $ComputerName | Select-Object PsComputerName, InterfaceAlias, Status, MacAddress
```

The problem here is that `$ComputerName`, if you follow the logic of the script, contains a computer name. That isn't what `-CimSession` needs, though. Many CIM-based cmdlets don't come with a `-ComputerName` parameter; instead, you're expected to use `New-CimSession` to spin up a new session, and then query against it. This line of code also reveals a major style problem that goes against a core PowerShell coding pattern: accumulating output in an array. [The Big Book of PowerShell Gotchas](https://leanpub.com/thebigbookofpowershellgotchas) outlines why and suggests a more PowerShell-native approach. There are two main reasons: appending to arrays is memory-intensive, as the array has to be recreated each time, and because this approach mis-uses the PowerShell pipeline. It's _very_ common to see people familiar with other programming languages do this, because they're jumping in without really getting what the pipeline is all about. That's fine! It's a learning experience! 

Finally, there's a kinda-technical problem here:

```
-Filter {(Name -like "*")}
```

This is a little overwrought, and it's going to take longer for the domain controller to process. I'd just use `-Filter *` instead. Neither the original script, nor my revision, seeks to address situations where the number of queried objects exceeds the domain controller's query limit.

I'd rewrite this to look something like this:

```
Function Get-NetAdapterInfo {
 [CmdletBinding()]
 Param(
  [Parameter(Mandatory=$True)]
  [string]$SearchBase
 )
 
 Get-ADComputer -Filter * -SearchBase $SearchBase |
 Select -Expand Name |
 ForEach-Object {
  $session = New-CimSession -ComputerName $_
  Get-NetAdapter -CimSession $session | 
  Select-Object PsComputerName, InterfaceAlias, Status, MacAddress
 }

}

Get-NetAdapterInfo -searchbase "ou=whatever,dc=domain,dc=com" | Export-CSV Whatever.csv
```

I've rewritten this as a proper advanced function, which is how pretty much _everything_ in PowerShell should be done. That separates the script's functionality, which is querying network adapter info, from the destination, which in this case is a CSV. By outputting objects, one at a time, to the pipeline, the function becomes self-contained and its output can be sent anywhere. 

I've made the function parameterized, so that it can be self-contained while accepting new `-SearchBase` data each time it's run.

I've also corrected the problem with `-CimSession`, and removed the error suppression. I did _not_ add proper error handling, which is certainly something I might want to do when spinning up the new CIM session. I'd likely do that in the next revision of the function.
 
