# Problem 6: On Formatting Numbers in Strings
Here's a snippet of code. This one, I'm not including in the GitHub repo, because there's really only a couple of lines to worry about. For context, here's the large chunk:

```
$SourceFile = "C:/Temp/File.txt"
$DestinationFile = "C:/Temp/NonexistentDirectory/File.txt"

If (Test-Path $DestinationFile) {
$i = 0
While (Test-Path $DestinationFile) {
$i += 1
$DestinationFile = "C:/Temp/NonexistentDirectory/File$i.txt"
}
} Else {
New-Item -ItemType File -Path $DestinationFile -Force
}

Copy-Item -Path $SourceFile -Destination $DestinationFile -Force
```

The _desire_ is for the destination files to be named `File00001.txt` and so on, but obviously as-is it's producing `File1.txt`. Here's the couple of relevant lines:

```
$i += 1
$DestinationFile = "C:/Temp/NonexistentDirectory/File$i.txt"
```

How would you achieve the intended outcome?

## Spoiler!!
This is a place where PowerShell's oft-ignored and mostly underused `-f` formatting operator comes into play. 

```
"{0} there {1}" -f "Hello",$name
```

Like most operators, `-f` takes two _operands_. The first is a string, which can contain {0} placeholders. The second is an array of values, which are then mapped into those placeholders. Placeholder numbering starts at zero. 

But those placeholders can do a lot more, because you can "tag" them with formatting instructions. This lets them format numbers and dates, particularly, in a huge variety of ways. There's a great [article](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/7855.powershell-using-the-f-format-operator.aspx) with some very useful and specific examples, but I find myself consulting the [.NET string formatting documentation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.string.format(v=vs.110).aspx), because although it's very developer-y, it's also very complete and it's what the `-f` operator is using under the hood.

In this case, we want to take a number and left-pad it with a certain number of zeroes.  

```
"{0:d5}" -f 1 
```

This says I want a 5-digit number, and PowerShell will left-pad with zeroes as needed to hit that quantity.  So:

```
$DestinationFile = 
 "C:/Temp/NonexistentDirectory/File{0:d5}.txt" -f $i
```

This would produce filenames like `File00001.txt`, `File00010.txt`, and so on.
