# Problem 8: Mix 'n' Match
This one's one of those "gotchas" that you either have run into and will spot immediately, or that can be extremely vexing. It catches newcomers all the time. This is a code snippet:

```
Get-ADUser : Parameter set cannot be resolved using the specified named parameters.
At C:\Work\test.ps1:10 char:34
+ Get-ADUser -Filter {Company -like "*Paul*"} -Identity $_.s ...
+                 
    + CategoryInfo          : InvalidArgument: (:) [Get-ADUser], ParameterBindingException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : AmbiguousParameterSet,Microsoft.ActiveDirectory.Management.Commands.GetADUser

Get-ADUser -Filter {Company -like "*Paul*"} -Identity $_.sAMAccountName -Properties DisplayName, LastlogonDate, Enabled, AccountLockoutTime, LastBadPasswordAttempt, BadPwdCount, LockedOut, Company, Description
```

Do you see the problem?

## Spoiler!
This one not only highlights the importance of the help files in PowerShell, but the importance of knowing all the little clues they give you. Go ahead and [read the documentation for Get-ADUser](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/addsadministration/get-aduser). The only docs actually make this a bit more clear, visually, than then in-product help files.

Notice that the first block of syntax includes a `-Filter` parameter, but no `-Identity` parameter. The second block has `-Identity`, but not `-Filter`. That means those two parameters are _mutually exclusive_; they exist in different _parameter sets_, and you cannot mix and match between parameter sets in PowerShell. You must choose either of them (or one of the other sets), but you can't use both.

There's also a kind of semantic problem in the original code snippet. It's attempting to select a given user by their SAM Account Name (which is unique in all of a single directory), and then filter for just those users whose Company field contains "Paul." That's nonsensical; PowerShell parameters are nearly always _additive_ not _alternative_, you couldn't have more than one user with a given SAM Account Name, and so there's no sense to "also" filter the results by Company. The `-Identity` parameter always returns zero or one user; that's why it cannot be used alongside `-Filter`, which can return more than one.

If the intent here was to get all users matching the SAM Account name _or_ having a given string in the Company field, you'd likely need to run two queries and aggregate the output of them. Alternately, if the intent was to get all the users having a specific Company field, and then narrow the results down, you'd probably perform that Company query first, and then pipe the results to `Where-Object` to filter them further. You can get the domain controller to do more complex filters using an `-LDAPFilter`, but that uses its own specialized syntax that isn't always widely understood by everyone.

