# Problem 9: The Return of…
This is another common gotcha in PowerShell. But, rather than tell you what the problem is with the code, I want you to figure it out for yourself. You'll need to predict what the problem will be, as in what someone might complain about if they wrote this themselves and then ran it. And then, create a working version. This is a tiny snippet, so there won't be a version in the download repository.

```
Function Get-ServiceStatus {
 [CmdletBinding()]
 Param(
  [Parameter(Mandatory=$True)]
  [string[]]$Name
 )
 ForEach ($item in $name) {
  $svc = Get-Service $item
  Return $svc.status
 }
}
```

## Spolier!
The `return` keyword is a tricky one in PowerShell. It's especially confusing for programmers from another language, who think they know what it does based on their past experience. Honestly, `return` is something that many on the PowerShell product team regret, for the confusion it's caused. 

In PowerShell v5 classes, `return` does what it should do based on how other languages work: if PowerShell sees you using `return` in a class, it suppresses other things that are output to the pipeline. Instead, it only outputs whatever `return` tells it to, and then it exits the class method. That's how `return` "should" work.

But anywhere else in PowerShell, as in the function in this chapter, `return` simply emits one last thing to the pipeline and then exits. Anything you've _previously_ output to the pipeline _still gets output_, which can be confusing. For example:

```
Function test {
 Write "one"
 Return "two"
 Write "three"
 }
 ```
 
This will output "one" and "two," but never output "three." That's because `return` is basically a special shortcut to `Write-Output`, one that does indeed output to the pipeline, but that then exits the function. In fact, this `test` example is how _most_ people encounter their first `return` "gotcha," because they won't expect the function to output anything other than just "two."
 
In this chapter, however, we got something a bit different. The function will work _sometimes_. Specifically, it'll work fine when you run it with one service name. But give it two names, and it'll only output the status of the first service, because `return` forces it to exit afterwards. A proper rewrite of this function:

```
Function Get-ServiceStatus {
 [CmdletBinding()]
 Param(
  [Parameter(Mandatory=$True)]
  [string[]]$Name
 )
 ForEach ($item in $name) {
  $svc = Get-Service $item
  Write-Output $svc.status
 }
}
```

_Generally_ speaking, this is the pattern you _should_ see in PowerShell. PowerShell functions should be designed to work in the pipeline, which means they should output items _to_ the pipeline, and be prepared to output multiple items if needed. _Generally_ speaking, outside of a class, there's no reason to use the `return` keyword in PowerShell. It's "syntax sugar," and misleading sugar at that.

A> There's some debate over whether to `Write-Output $something` versus just running `$something`, without the `Write-Output` command. The end result is the same; there's a tiny amount of additional overhead in using the command, but unless you're enumerating across thousands of objects, you'll never notice, and including the command makes the code more readable.

Whenever I see `return` in a function, I immediately suspect that the author is working based on knowledge of other programming languages. I'll often see them accumulating output in an array, rather than immediately outputting each item to the pipeline--another "no-no" in most PowerShell situations. 
